server/db/README.md, before:

# Database

## Adding the tables and creating the db.sqlite file

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:migrate`

**Note that this command will call the up method for all files listed in the migrations folder. Currently these just create tables, however they may change the state of the DB.**

## Task folder

The task folder is where you should write all the queries and db inserts. See task.js.example for template as well as more useful demos addOrganizations and addSingleOrganization.

## Adding seed data

Copy the file you wish to seed in the 'seeders file and run'

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:seed --seed <filename>`

Alternatively run

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:seed:all`

## Use db instance

You should be able to import the db instance with

```js
// make sure the root is db
const { sequilize } = require("./path/to/db.js");
```

## Testing connection

Running the following script will create and leverage the db instance and test the connection.

```bash
# [root]/server/db/helpers
node test.js
```

## Visualise DB Diagram

1. In VSCode download "DBML Entity-Relationship Diagrams visualizer" by Juste Bocovo.
2. Open the file `concept.dbml`
3. Click the icon on the top right of the screen that says 'show diagram'
4. The result may be no schema. Just go to the document and click ctrl + s to save the file. The [issue seems to be common]('https://github.com/BOCOVO/db-schema-visualizer/issues/88')
5. Hopefully you should now see the diagram.

Commit message:

DB:Documentation update db.config.js.example, database.js and README.md

server/db/README.md, after:

# Database

## Configuration

You can run DB scripts with different flags like so

`key=value node script.js`

The key we need to assign a value to is 'NODE_ENV'. The values we can set it to are 'development', 'test' and 'production'. So we can run:

`NODE_ENV=development node path/to/database.js`

Which will show the response in the terminal:

```bash
Executing (default): SELECT 1+1 AS result
Connection has been established
```

Like wise, scripts that rely on the config file will need a similar initial flag.

## Adding the tables and creating the db.sqlite file

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:migrate`

**Note that this command will call the up method for all files listed in the migrations folder. Currently these just create tables, however they may change the state of the DB.**

## Task folder

The task folder is where you should write all the queries and db inserts. See task.js.example for template as well as more useful demos addOrganizations and addSingleOrganization.

Script example:

`NODE_ENV=development node ./server/db/tasks/addOrganizations.js`

## Adding seed data

Copy the file you wish to seed in the 'seeders file and run'

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:seed --seed <filename>`

Alternatively run

`pnpm dlx sequelize-cli db:seed:all`

## Use db instance

You should be able to import the db instance with

```js
// make sure the root is db
const { sequilize } = require("./path/to/db.js");
```

## Testing connection

Running the following script will create and leverage the db instance and test the connection.

```bash
# [root]/server/db/helpers
node test.js
```

## Visualise DB Diagram

1. In VSCode download "DBML Entity-Relationship Diagrams visualizer" by Juste Bocovo.
2. Open the file `concept.dbml`
3. Click the icon on the top right of the screen that says 'show diagram'
4. The result may be no schema. Just go to the document and click ctrl + s to save the file. The [issue seems to be common]('https://github.com/BOCOVO/db-schema-visualizer/issues/88')
5. Hopefully you should now see the diagram.
